1. There is no inherent value in the objective world. The world is entirely unbiased.
You enter the world on your own. A lonely death awaits you. No one else has any of the same ideas as you have. None of your past experiences have ever been shared with anybody else.
A few generations from now, and nobody will remember you. Nobody gave a damn before you came up. You have to do things on your own, for your own.
You have the freedom to choose your own interpretation of things.
2. The answer is no, if….
Humans haven’t evolved to make tough decisions in the face of so much variety. Therefore, you should only answer yes if you are certain of your answer. Your certainty will never approach absolute certainty, but it will be high.
“Just say, No.”
If you find yourself torn between two undesirable options, go with the one that will cause you the most immediate discomfort.
3. You have more power over your feelings than you give yourself credit for.
You usually tend to see the world as unchangeable while yourselves as fluid, yet the opposite is more accurate.
Changing the world is difficult; changing oneself is much simpler.
Even if the issue at hand is someone else’s responsibility, it is not beneficial to blame others for your own well-being.
Instead of trying to alter the external environment, you should first examine your own emotional reaction to the source of your distress.
And remember, taking the easy road today will make things more difficult later on.
4. Don’t torture yourself emotionally over anything; just deal with it.
Instead of allowing your thoughts to control you, you should treat them as a resource you can put to good use without having them rule your life.
5. Make a goal hourly wage and stick to it.
Ignore an issue if the cost to solve it is less than your hourly fee. You should outsource a job if doing so would save you money per hour. You should just establish an extremely high hourly fee for yourself and stick to it.
6. Reading takes less time than listening, and acting takes less time than watching.
